the wildest thing right now is you can
start a company that can make tens of
millions of dollars literally in 24
months and you can do it for potentially
you know2 million5 million a year ago I
remember many of the startups in the
batch would get sort of Enterprise proof
of Concepts or pilots in particular and
there was a lot of cynicism around
whether any of those Pilots would
translate into real Revenue fast forward
a year I think we have all firsthand
experienced that these Pilots have
turned into like real Revenue it's still
early days honestly like it you know we
sort of breathe a sigh of relief right
now in 2024 but it's anyone's game
honestly like these things are moving so
[Music]
quickly welcome back to another episode
of the light cone I'm Gary this is Jared
Harge and Diana and collectively we
funded companies worth hundreds of
billions of dollars right at the
beginning so
2024 what a year how are you feeling
about this Harge pretty great I think
this is the year that everything broke
in favor of startups what I've been
thinking about a lot recently is when
chat gbt launched two years ago now the
immediate consensus viw was all of the
value would go to open Ai and very
specifically do you all remember when
they announced the gbt or the chat gbt
store yeah like the I remember the
consensus was everything that was built
on top of chat gbt was a gbt rapper and
the App Store was just going to be
released and Crush every single person
trying to build an AI application and
open AI would be a ginormous company but
there' be no opportunity for startups
sounds kind of ridiculous to say that
now because um who even remembers the
chat GPT store exactly the chat gvt
store itself was a nothing Burger but
like more importantly what are the big
AI applications today like I'd say
outside of chat gbt itself the breakout
consumer application is perplexity the
breakout Enterprise application is
probably glean maybe um in legal Tech
you have case Tech you have Harvey pruma
you have photo room like there's the
point being there are many many
applications that have been built not by
open AI it's been a great time to build
startups yeah the wildest thing right
now is you can start a company that can
make tens of millions of dollars uh
literally in 24 months from zero
and uh you can do it for potentially you
know2 million5 million that's sort of
the story of one of these companies Opus
clip which never had to raise a real
series a and that's something that we
sort of see across the YC Community as
well yeah I think that's um a
particularly important point that you
can do it as a startup without ra
raising tons of capital because post the
gbt store launch I then remember uh
anthropic and Claude emerged and the
consensus view for a while was all of
the value is going to go to one of these
Foundation model companies and that the
only way you can compete in AI is to
raise huge amounts of money um either
because you've got venture capital or
your Amazon or Facebook or Google um
with tons of cash already but that if
you weren't one of the big foundation
models um there would be no value and
the applications built on top of these
things would either be built by the
foundation model companies themselves or
just not be that valuable again
something that turned out to be
completely not true right and in
particular what drove that is open
source like the weird series of events
where me like the weight's being leaked
and like meta just like rolling Tor yeah
I kind of forced the hand for uh meta to
launch a llama which was funny and
people thought oh it was just this cool
open source model but it was 18 months
behind open Ai and people started doing
a lot of der work out of it is like
vicuna and all these other animals
related to llamas that came out and it
took the or llas one of the companies at
YC as well that enabled people to do uh
local kind of Docker development like
models running on device it was pretty
cool but people didn't think that um
they were going to be able to catch up
and the thing that changed from 2023 to
2024 is that during the summer it was a
turning point it was the first time that
the top foundation model in all the
rankings benchmarks was llama and that
was a shock to the community yeah so it
turns out Choice uh matters and choice
means that it's not as much about the
model I think the model still matters
quite a lot um but once you have choice
in model it means you can't have the
sort of idea of Monopoly pricing and you
have that model you're pedor also has
that model but all the other things seem
to end up mattering a lot more which is
product your ability to sell your
ability to actually adjust to user
feedback your ability to get to zero
churn all of those suddenly become far
more important than capturing a light
cone of all future value through the
model right a very specific way I I felt
this is I remember a year ago working
with startups in the batch that are
essentially building model routers just
like an API to call like a specific
model and I remember the um a lot of the
motivation for that at the time was uh
reducing cost it was like oh like you
don't want to just like burn up all of
your chat BT calls you want to spread
them out across like various different
models and the the the argument against
that was just oh like the cost of all
this stuff is going down to zero anyway
like there's no value to be had in being
like a model router and no one wants to
build their applications with a model
router they're all just going to call
whatever is the best model I think fast
forward a year like that's totally not
true like from what I can tell the the
model router was actually a really great
entry point into just building sort of a
new stack for building llm powered apps
and most of the the applications we're
seeing I think they just don't want to
be beholden to a specific model does
that map with what you've seen yeah
actually one of the things we've seen
now in the fall batch that just
presented at demo day which was one of
the trends that shifted from Summer 24
and winter 24 was precisely what you're
saying companies started to use multiple
models for the applications like the
best one for Speed at some point because
sometimes you need to parse a lot of the
input very quickly it's fine if it's a
bit more lossy and then you need the
bigger model to handle the more complex
task so a lot of companies in Fall 24
have this actually multiple model
architecture to use the best one for the
best task which is similar to the
concept of the model router but it was
uh the idea evolve instead of being
being more of a routing it was more of a
orchestration I think a concrete example
we gave uh a couple episodes ago was uh
camper was a company you work with they
use the fastest model for paring like
PDFs and the more complex ones they use
01 and that's that's how it's done and
other companies that's doing uh fraud
detection they have this concept of a
like a junior risk analyst where they
just use like a fast and easy gbd4 mini
and and then they use the bigger one
with like
o1 or the other example is um I think
cursor talks about it in their episode
with uh Lex Freedman they also have this
complex multi-architecture with multiple
models and this is why it works well
it's like they do one very specific for
predicting what you're going to type
next but one for understanding the whole
code base so very different tasks so
that's definitely happening now yeah the
other thing that uh popped up for fall
batch there's a company I'm working with
um called variant and uh what they're
trying to do is take basically
state-of-the-art open- Source llm models
that can do Cod genen and then teach
them Aesthetics so uh starting with icon
generation and so they built this huge
sort of posttraining
workflow that should work on you know as
the open- source models get smarter and
better at Coen broadly they can just you
know take the next version of that and
then uh take their post training
architecture and data set and then
basically teach a given model Aesthetics
so what a certain thing is supposed to
look like and uh not in a diffusion sort
of way but actually at the SVG level and
we think SVG will actually translate
into all kinds of Aesthetics so it's an
interesting approach and like one of the
newer ones and that post training is a
whole coherent way to sort of skip the
whole idea that um all the value is like
acur into the model especially because
of Open Source to your point the other
thing I I've been having flashbacks to
is a year ago I remember many of the
startups in the batch would get sort of
Enterprise proof of Concepts or pilots
in particular and there was a lot of
cynicism around whether any of those
Pilots would translate into real Revenue
um lots of parallels to crypto and how
anytime there's some new interesting
technology blockchain more specifically
than crypto but anytime there's a new
technology Enterprises always want to
run pilots and P because it's someone's
job to like check off yeah we did the
like hot new technology thing the chief
Innovation officer must have his VI
we've spoken about this one of one of
our episodes I think and yeah fast
forward a year I think we have all
firsthand experienced that these Pilots
have turned into like real revenue and
if anything the startups in the YC badge
now are going to sell into real
Enterprises faster than they have before
and are ramping up revenue and reaching
Milestones like a million dollars AR
faster than I've suddenly ever seen yeah
the fall batch just did this actually
again which is actually the first time I
think we noticed it was actually the
summer batch of this year and uh one of
the funnier things that we realized was
do you remember when Paul Graham uh
would tell us how fast you needed to
grow during the YC batch 10% a week 10%
a week and uh the wild thing is in
aggregate uh across both you know summer
and fall batches that's what those
batches did wow so which I don't think
ever happened reacts over the course of
YC yeah 3X over the course of YC which I
don't think has ever actually happened
on average on average it was only the
best companies that did that which is
the top quartile or something right so
the companies are
better the general thing that is true is
just that the time it's taking to reach
$100 million in annual revenue is
trending down yeah and not only that um
we had dinner with Ben Horowitz recently
and remember he was saying when they
started Andries and horowits the common
understanding was that in any given year
there'd only be 15 companies that year
that would even make it to $100 million
a year revenue and uh they said they ran
the numbers the last 20 years and every
decade the number of companies that
could actually make it to $100 million
went up by 10x so what was 15 per year
maybe 20 years ago I mean we're talking
"about 1,500 companies a year that have a"
real shot at actually making that number
and when you combine that with what
we're seeing in the summer and fall
batches it's not that surprising and
Jared had a really good argument on our
last episode about how vertical AI is
going to enable this to have thousand
500 plus companies to bloom yeah that's
why it's growing so fast it's because
the value propped to companies of these
products is so incredibly strong that
like they're just flying off the shelves
cuz like I companies are smart and they
can do an Roi calculation and when the
ROI is fantastic all these all these
truisms that people believe about
Enterprise Sal cycles and like quite a
taste to get big Enterprise deals go out
the window because companies are smart
and they'll make rational decisions you
know har there there's another way that
this broken favor of startups that I was
thinking about um it's hard to even
remember now but a year ago one of the
things that people said a lot was that
these llms are not reliable enough to
deploy in the Enterprise they
hallucinate that was why a lot of people
said like the these pilots and PC's like
won't translate into real contracts is
because yeah it's too risky of a
technology um for people to actually
deploy deploy yeah and not only is it
transl into real Revenue but translating
into real deployments that are like
being used at Large Scale you know doing
thousands of tickets a day and I think
it's because we've learned how to make
the agents reliable via the kinds of
techniques that Jake talked about when
he was here and just the all this
infrastructure has grown up around
around the bottles it's enabled people
to make them reliable yeah that's
actually a big Trend uh this year is
this concept of uh thinking of AI more
as agentic that is a term that kind of
bubbled up a lot this year it was not in
the bubbled space of conversation last
year last year was more about a lot of
things that were kind of very chat-like
chat I mean that was kind of the Riff on
it but now remixed into a bunch of
agents for XYZ and we just I mean you
just put out Gary just put out a great
explainer video about computer use from
Claude but just the capability of the
models keeps pushing in the direction of
just being able to do like complex
multistep things and actually take over
your computer and call other
applications and and perform complex
tasks that just didn't seem possible a
year ago what about regulation seems
like we sort of dodged a bullet there
with uh 1047 and uh it looks like some
of the Biden EO uh is not that likely to
survive the Trump White House TBD what
that means in the longer term but
certainly one of the things that we were
very worried about was that some certain
amount of math Beyond a certain level
would suddenly become illegal or require
registration at your local
office it's certainly been a weird time
to be in Tech because I've never
experienced um software and Technology
intersecting with politics so much and
in particular I'm not used to genuinely
caring about National politics affecting
startups in a YC batch or just you know
companies that are less than a year old
but it did really it did really for a
moment was worrying it wasn't clear
whether startups would actually be able
to build Innovative AI applications
versus suffering from regularity capture
from open Ai and a few big
players we're obviously very glad it
broke in the favor of startups seems
like we're still in the early game right
I mean I mean it's very easy to see that
um the platforms themselves really will
or could possibly resemble you know the
win32 Monopoly right Windows uh has
access to the apis they in fact know all
the stats about what's working on their
platforms and guess what they can build
it into their platform you know we sort
of breathe a sigh of relief right now in
2024 but um you know it's anyone's game
honestly like these things are moving so
quickly I wouldn't totally breathe your
last sigh of relief yet you know it's we
we got to keep working on this okay so
it's clearly been a great year for
startups um what else has been happening
who else has it been um a great year for
do we think there certainly been some
big funding rounds right like open AI
unsurprisingly has raised huge amounts
of capital scale yeah even within YC
though we've seen like scale AI has
really broken out this year $6 billion
for open AI 1 billion
for uh scale a billion dollars for SSI
the new ilas sger startup scale I think
is just worth talking about because it's
such a classic startup Story I mean you
were there in the early days right you
interviewed them for YC um what um tell
us what the idea was that they
interviewed with and how they ended up
landing on what you know is probably one
of the best startup ideas of the last 10
years the fun thing about the scale. a
story is that it is the sort of epitome
of the like classic YC startup story
there's other kinds of startups that get
started you know like SSI for example
that's not a typical YC startup story
where like some very wellestablished
people raise a billion dollars with like
a PowerPoint pitch but like scale. a is
like the classic story of how like young
programmers can just gradually build a
like10 billion company over time by
being like smarter and harder working
than anybody else and so yeah when Alex
uh interviewed at YC he wasn't working
on anything related to AI it was a
completely different idea and the idea
for scale.ai kind of got pulled out of
him by the market and it's it's actually
still like several pivots cuz like uh
the the original idea at YC didn't have
anything to do with AI and then for a
long time he was basically doing data
labeling for the self-driving car
companies they applied as I remember
they applied like a healthcare related
idea yeah it was a website for booking
doctor's appointments okay cool and then
they pivoted during the batch um do you
remember how they came up with the data
labing Li cuz this supposed to be in was
this
2016 yeah the way they came up with the
data labeling idea was that Alex had
worked at quora and quora had to do some
data labeling for like moderation and
stuff and so at the time the Big Data
labeling service was Amazon Mechanical
Turk and they were deemed unbeatable
because they were like run by Amazon and
Amazon could throw infinite money at it
it was always at scale it was at like
like quite large scale already but Alex
had a unique Insight which is he'
actually used mechanical torque at quora
and he knew that it kind of sucked to
actually use it and so he he he had this
sort of like unique Insight on the world
and so he just tried to build a better
mechanical TK basically the version he
would have wanted when he was at Kora
and as I remember it like really the
their early traction came almost
entirely from One customer Cruise right
yes which needed to do tons of data
labeling on all the images that the cars
were taking as they were driving around
San Francisco you got to like draw a
circle around the traffic light and
thing like that and the the cool thing
about scale is that they've actually
caught two waves so they you know
accidentally caught the first wave of
all these self-driving car companies
because ml took off at that time in
computer vision there was just an
unprecedented demand for labeled data
for training sets that just hadn't
existed before and so they were able to
ride that wave and then as that wave was
like crusting llms got big and all of
these companies needed to do rhf at very
large scale and scale was just like
perfectly positioned to move into that
business as well yeah like I think the
scale story is are so interesting CU it
was pre llm it was it was clear a
multi-billion Dollar business anyway and
llm it called The llm Wave which is now
proped into probably it's going to be
like a hundred billion doll plus company
and I'm seeing that at the ground level
too where many companies I had that
maybe finished the batch even pre- the
batch didn't have an idea pivoted into
an AI idea that's taking off like I'm
just seeing much more success in
Founders who who waited out and can find
an idea that they just couldn't before I
have a company from a year ago they Prov
they proved the whole batch they
couldn't find um a great idea it
actually took them six months after the
batch until they realized um one of
their parents ran a dentist office so he
just decided to go hang out at the
office to see like if there was anything
he could automate uh and they just ended
up building an AI back office for
dentist offices and now it's just like
their week over week growth is fantastic
it's doing really really well and I'm
seeing lots of cases like that spring up
definitely seeing that as well I think
there's something about the advantage of
having all these very hardcore young
technical Founders that are willing to
kind of just bet the farm and go all in
on just a little bit of a glimmer of oh
this is where the future is going to be
let me just try it and then it actually
ends up working I just St with the
dentist I have a lot of teams that
pivoted as well into different spaces
where they kind of found that glimmer
like oh computer use came out and I have
a couple companies that are working and
betting and going in that direction and
it's like working well I mean it's still
early I mean this is just a fall badge
but that's cool too okay so what are
some of the act the trends that we've
seen what are some of the the specific
Trends and waves that startups have been
riding coming out of the batches voice
AI is something we've talked about it's
clearly um maybe the most promising
vertical for AI right now in terms of
just Ro traction do you think uh voice
is a win or take all or will it be
something that has sort of a 100
different verticals that are very
tailored to those specific
verticals that's literally one of the
questions I get from some of our uh
voice AI startups themselves they're
like should I be going horizontal or
should I just continue to grow with
within my vertical it feels to me like
voice itself vo is um I just like a it
touches everything and there's so many
different applications for it that
um you can there's probably infinite
applications to build where voice is the
interesting element of it I mean things
that just spring off top of your head
like language learning applications I'm
sure there's not going to be just one
really cool voice AI power language
learning application probably going to
be multiple of them remote work like um
teleconferencing there probably like a
whole other area where there's
interesting things to do with voice Ai
and even within customer support we
highlighted a number of companies we
talked about last time um company parel
cap. a yeah it it turns out that
customer support is not really one
vertical there's like many different
flavors of customer support and they're
like very different on the inside once
you get into the details because I think
there's very specific types of workflows
you need to do per industry and that's
to the point of why vertical AI agents
are going to really flourish I mean same
thing for Bo it's just very different
workflows if you're building the I don't
know the voice agent to do customer
support for an airline very different
than doing it for a bank very different
than not doing it for a BB SAS company
Etc yeah I guess that question of is
there going to be um pure horizontal
integration is sort of like saying will
there only be one website yeah or it'd
be like saying like they're just going
to be both it'll be horizontal
infrastructure companies that do really
well and vertical applications because
it to say otherwise would be like saying
oh like stripe Powers payments on the
internet and it's also just going to
have all the most valuable applications
that accept payments on the internet
it's just not how it works like there's
enough value at just being the
horizontal infrastructure layer so I'm
sure there'll be great voice AI
companies that just make it really easy
for you to build your own voice AI
application while there'll also be
hundreds of really valuable vertical
apps what are what are what are other
trends that we' seen besides uh voice we
were talking about robotics earlier
there certainly we we are certainly
working with more Founders building
robots this year than I think any year
ever uh what's driving that I have a x
app team that's called weave robotics
that they're going to try to ship a real
robot in
2025 it costs about 65
"$70,000 but that's actually what it"
costs to have the actuators and the
safety needed to actually have it work
in your home I think it's actually
driven by this idea that um the llm
itself can be sort of the consciousness
of the robot like am I doing this thing
that you know my owner needs me to do um
you know how do I actually interact with
them and the other people in the
household uh but it's funny because then
The Voice language action model that
might actually do a certain thing like
fold laundry that's uh almost tool use
inside of the broader llm Consciousness
so I feel like that's one of the things
that I'm excited to see you know will it
really work and I think we're going to
find out this year I guess the way I
think about it robotics is basically
half Ai and half Hardware half of the
part of the equation is starting to work
well the hardware is still hard the
hardware is still very expensive yeah
there's still there's some evidence that
uh being able to actually do laundry for
instance like that might be one of the
first things that gets shipped I think
the dream case for startups is going to
be that you can build just the the AI or
the software piece of it and run it on
commodity hardware and do really great
things the opposite case would just be
actually if the two thing like if you
need to be good at the hardware and the
software and they like coupled together
and need to produce both and you would
expect Tesla to be the obvious like
winner in the space and it remains to be
seen I'm pretty optimistic we have
multiple companies I feel they trying to
be creative on how to run the models on
commodity hardware for specific use
cases it still feels early it it feels
like the robotics hasn't quite hit its
like chat GPT moment yet maybe the
moment is self-driving cars have been
working in San Francisco I don't think
it's talked enough people who don't live
in San Francisco or like often don't
realize the extent to which these are
fully deployed in San Francisco and
regular people are writing them every
single day yep I saw Tony from door Das
recently and he said he exclusively uses
weo like everywhere I live in Palo Alo
and have no option for it but I would
love to it' be amazing I mean the wild
thing is there are only a few thousand
of these deployed right now in the
entire world and Frisco yeah what about
big flops for 2024 uh you I seem to
remember that we uh started one of our
light cone episodes all wearing uh Apple
Vision pros and quests and uh we have
not talked about AR since Diana what
happened uh it hasn't happened there's
this moment for a lot of the hardware
that needs to be a lot more lightweight
like we need to get to this form factor
but there's actually constraints with
physics to fit all that Hardware in such
a small form factor in order to have
enough computer and the Optics to fit is
just super challenging and I think
there's still more actual engineering
and physics that needs to be discovered
and that that's it I think the
algorithms are there but it's just lots
of really hard hardware and Optics
problems it's a it's a tough chicken and
egg problem because there's not enough
Hardware in people's hands for it to be
worth it for app developers to build
apps and so there's not enough apps for
people to want to buy the hardware and I
feel like the people who did buy like
the the killer application so far seems
to be using it as um uh a really large
monitor um uh it and it does work very
well for that yeah you've actually
retained as a as a user Gary right yeah
it's great for watching movies yeah
maybe the one device that I think
actually been playing and actually feels
good is actually the meta Ray Barn it
doesn't have any of the actual displays
but I really like it for the audio and
voice and one workflow I've been trying
out is actually using the MAA Ray barn
and connect it to uh any of the voice
modes for either chpt or Claude and kind
of have a conversation with it about a
topic oh I haven't tried that that's an
interesting idea yeah yeah that's a
great idea that is like a fun thing that
I've been doing and just chatting with
myself maybe look a little bit like a
crazy person while you're walking but uh
it's been fun to kind of learn about
different topics should we talk about AI
coding 2024 was the year that AI coding
really broke out yep and we had the
majority of the of YC Founders now use
cursor or other AI idees they just like
exploded over the summer Devon proved
that you could like fully automate like
large programming tasks yeah all that
was this year that was pretty wild
replate agents continue to improve like
I'm hear more anecdotal stories of
people building replate apps on like
their way home from work being really
impressed like repet took this
technology and popularized it among like
non-technical people for the first time
that's really crazy and even more uh
lower technical version is uh
anthropics artifact where you can
actually prototype very simple apps and
chat with claw to build really FR simple
front pages and then you can prototype
stuff as a PM and show it to your
engineering team and it's like a
full-fledged working version yeah it's
wild because it just means that you can
one person can do so much more and do
you think it's going to change the
nature of how startups are actually
hiring are you seeing this yet like some
of the founders I've met who recently
raised their seed rounds coming out of
YC um they're not really approaching it
how maybe the classic advice would uh
teach them in the P you know in the past
you might say let me try to find you
know more let me try to hire more people
like I you know there are certain tasks
that normally I have to find you know
the person who did it at my competitor
who did all of customer success and I
need to find that person who's under the
person who runs that function and I've
got to hire that person and promote them
and uh they're going to come with all
this knowledge and people networks some
people are saying sort of the opposite
which is I'm going to get my software
Engineers to write more processes that
use llms upfront and you know I probably
will end up needing to hire that person
but maybe after the series B or C and
not right now yeah I think I've seen
that as well with companies after the
batch where they're looking for
engineers that have more upside and
they're really fully native with a setup
with a AI coding stack and part of the
one of the clever interview checks I've
seen is people do pair programming and
watch them use the tools and you can
really tell if someone really has Tinker
with them it's actually an engineer cut
that that is not only good at coding but
also prompting and telling with when the
AI output is not correct I think the
part of reading and evaluating the
output of all these AI coding agents is
actually a lot more critical yeah
there's been an interesting controversy
this past year about AI coding agents
and programming interviews because AI
coding agents basically broke the
standard programming interviews that
companies have been doing for years
actually har I'm curious what you think
about this since you ran a programming
interview company
I mean I guess the the interesting
debate is whether you
should penalize or prevent people who
are interviewing at your company from
using cursor or one of these tools um to
Ace your programming interview or
whether you should just lean into it and
adapt and uh test to see how productive
they are um I generally think the way
these things tend to or is more in that
direction that I think it will just
become you'll just be measured on your
absolute output and the bar will go up I
think like stripe for example were early
on this about a decade or so ago where
they recognized that so much of what
they needed their programmers to do
would like build we web application and
web software and not do hard CS problems
and so the industry shifted away from
the Google style interview of lots of
computer science problems and
whiteboarding to just give someone a
laptop and make them build like a to-do
app in like 4 hours so I think we'll
just see the same thing happen where
people just the industry will just
adjust and you'll just be interviewed
using these tools and just be expected
to do a lot more in like a 2hour
interview than you are today to your
point Gary around just the the startups
like maybe how many people they need to
hire or just like how how they they
scale it seems too early to see like
dramatic effects on that yet but one
thing that I'm interested in is uh so
watched an interview with Jeff Bezos
recently and he said that well one he's
back at Amazon working on AI and two
that apparently Amazon itself has like a
100 or maybe it was a thousand it was a
surprisingly large number of internal
llm powered applications presumably to
just run Amazon the last time Amazon
took something it ran for internal
infrastructure and released it to the
world was AWS which completely changed
how startups are built so I'm curious to
see if they have interesting
applications to run Amazon internally
that they'll just release out and
suddenly like there'll be new Stacks to
just build and scale your companies on
and we'll see the whole something that
we've talked about in recent episodes of
the 10 person the one person unicorn one
of the applications they did talk about
is they did this giant migration for a
old version of programming language
whenever you need to upgrade different
versions of database Etc it's like a lot
of work and they use llms for it it was
like changing hundreds of thousands of
lines of code and it would have taken
engineering project of 6 months or more
it was done in weeks I mean Amazon's
just such a perfect use case for like L
empowered agents doing back office
processes they must have just like just
absolute goal buying of opportunities
and they just launched their uh big
foundation model actually that is uh
starting to be top in some of the
benchmarks as well so I think they're
trying to be another Contender through
this race that's interesting because uh
like from the bottom up like certainly
from some of the people who still work
at Amazon maybe right out of college
many of them do not have access to llms
or are actually barred from using it
from in their day-to-day so you know
maybe that's one of the downsides of
organizations when they get big enough
um you know the future is already here
but it is not evenly distributed even
within the same organization think but
that boat sort of well for uh both open
source and uh sort of self-hosting llms
like I it's on my to-do list to build my
own stack of Apple Minis and run llama
on my own little cluster on my desk I
bought all the hardware to build my own
machine but then we had a baby and it
hasn't
happened at some point I've been pretty
excited in that uh you know YC has been
operating back in person at San FR in
San Francisco for some time but we got a
real live demo day yeah all the way back
so no more zoom demo days no more zoom
alumni demo day you know we did alumni
demo day right here in this uh office
right you know right downstairs that was
awesome and then we took over the
"Masonic Center and 1,200 investors uh"
all in one room it was actually really
great for the founders I thought because
it was about uh a third as many Founders
than the summer batch and it was more
than 2x maybe 3x the number of investors
that uh then who had came to our
investor reception party so was like a
ratio of 10 investors for one company
roughly so uh I think all of them had a
really good time I'd almost forgotten
how great the energy of an in-person
demo day is like it's just not something
that you can replicate over Zoom the YC
demo days also always acted as the deao
investor reunion in Silicon Valley
because it's the one event that all the
investors would reliably show up at and
so they were really excited that we had
brought it back because when when when
we weren't doing it there was no
equivalent event sort of the homecoming
for Silicon Valley yeah so now it's uh
you know four times a year and it's the
one time that uh all the top early stage
investors in the world are going to come
back to San Francisco for hopefully that
week's festivities culminating in our
demo day so it's a real celebration it
feels like iners in general is back
that's certainly another theme of 2024
certainly the late stage startups that
we've been meeting with and speaking to
this year one of the highest priority
items has been figuring out how to get
everyone back into person back into the
office think like the era of it's going
to be remote forever is definitely gone
I certainly good ridd yeah exactly right
and then F like yeah in person is back
and then San Francisco is back like a
lot of thanks to you
Gary the elections recently seem to have
gone well like there's a lot of optimism
I feel around San Francisco and and yeah
we have a new mayor uh we're hoping that
he does the right things and um you know
we have a very thin moderate majority On
The Board of Supervisors uh but we did
get rid of some of the worst people who
created a doom Loop in San Francisco so
I'm optimistic you know we didn't get
everything we wanted but uh it's
tracking in the right direction and I
think as in startups as in politics you
always you know way overestimate what
you get you will get done in one year
but you always way underestimate what's
going to happen in 10 years I think it's
going to take 10 years it's going to
take 20 years but um just as startups
went from 15 companies a year to that
could possibly make it to $100 million a
"year to 1,500 in any given year knock on"
wood um that you know I think San
Francisco needs to be the beacon for all
the smartest people in the world and
that that's actually probably the thing
that I'm hope most hopeful for is that
we can actually just keep building so
from all of us to all of you watching
happy holidays and we'll see you in the
new year
[Music]